When we enter an URL into the browser's address bar, it sends the content to a Domain Name Server (DNS) to seek information about the entered URL. The DNS returns the answer in the form of an IP Address. The browser then sends the URL content to the IP Address location which is the server from where the web content has to be fetched for the URL. The web content returned from the web server is in the form of HTML, CSS, Images, JS files/contents. The browser processes these returned web content in a particular process and then displays the page which is called rendering.
The component of the browser which is responsible for the visual representation of the web content is termed as Rendering Engine. The HTML and the CSS contents are processed by the Rendering Engine to render the web content. For example, the Rendering Engine of Chrome is known by name Blink, Safari uses Rendering Engine WebKit, Forefox by name Gecko.
The component of the browser which is reposnsible for controlling and directing the functions of the Rendering Engine, the Browser, and coordinating with the Web Server is called Browser Engine.
The logic and functionality of a website (web content) is provided with Javascript which is a programming language at the browser end. The Javascript is interpreted with the JavaScript Engine. For example, Google Chrome has a JS Engine by the name V8, Firefox has the same in the name of Spider Monkey, Microsoft Bing uses Chakra and other browsers use various other JS Engines.
Firstly the Rendering Engine reads the HTML and constructs the DOM content tree. This DOM is the object represetaion of the HTML document. This DOM tree is made up of DOM nodes which can be HTML Elements, Images, Text, etc. All the CSS styling associated with each node is parsed by the Rendering Engine.
With the styling information and the DOM instructions a new tree named Render Tree is created. Once the Render Tree is constructed, it goes through a process of Layout where each node is positioned on the screen with coordinates.
The Render Tree is the traveresed with the UI Backend Layer and when the parsing process is finished the page is interactive ready.